I'm going to show you how to grow your
business so fast this year that it makes
your accountant nervous. And maybe
you're not growing as fast as you want
right now. And it's probably because
you're trying to fix a problem that
might not actually exist. And so most
businesses have one of two core problems
and they don't know which one they have.
And so I'm going to show you how to
identify which one of the two you have
and how to fix it. I'm Alexi. I own
acquisition.com a portfolio of companies
that generate north of 200 plus million
a year as of 2024. So whenever I look at
a business, I always want to understand
this one triage question up front, which
is, is this a business that is supply
constrained or is this a business that's
demand constrained? So here's the big
idea. You can either have too few
customers or too little capacity, but
never both at the same time. And so how
do you know which problem you have? So a
demand problem means that you have space
but not enough customers. So like a
restaurant without empty tables or a
calendar with open slots or you know
product sitting on shelves, you built it
but people aren't coming. So a supply
problem would be different. It means
that you have customers but not enough
capacity. So you have waiting list. You
have to turn people away or you can't
make products fast enough or you can't
take on new clients. They're coming in
but you can't serve them all. So how do
you know which problem you have? And so
here's the simple test. If you doubled
your ad budget tomorrow or you doubled
your outreach or you doubled your
content, would you be able to double
your sales or would you just create a
mess that you couldn't even handle? So
if it create a mess, then you have a
supply problem. If it would double your
sales, then you have a demand problem.
And so the difference between businesses
that grow and those that don't isn't
just the hard work, but it's working
hard on the right problem. And so, as
Warren Buffett says, there's nothing
worse than doing well with something
that shouldn't be done at all. So, I'm
going to give you a number of businesses
that are constrained and give you some
examples, and then you need to figure
out which category you think it's in,
supply or demand. So, as we dive into
these examples, I'm going to give you
some obvious ones, and I'm going to give
you some that are a little bit trickier.
Now, the good news is that even if it's
an obvious constraint, it doesn't make
the problem any less painful. and the
solutions any less applicable to your
business because if you're in a supply
constraint or demand constraint, it
absolutely is taking up all your
attention is where all the pain in your
life is coming from. And so I'm going to
break down the different strategies we
can use for different types of
businesses that are in each of these
situations. So let me give you the first
one. So think about a consultant who's
completely booked. So full schedule, 3
months ahead, working 60 hours a week,
always stressed out. Yet despite all the
work, his or her income has stopped
growing, right? So what does he do with
his little free time? Well, he makes
more content, he runs more ads, and he
tries to get more leads. He's trying to
fix a demand problem that he doesn't
have. So, the truth of it is he doesn't
have a marketing problem. He has a
supply problem that could also be a
pricing problem. So, which is it? We'll
dive in. So, you might think, wait,
that's crazy. I need more clients to
make more money. That consultant might
think, and this might be you, too. But
what if you try something different? So,
he has three options. So, number one is
he can just raise his prices by a lot.
And so most people when they raise their
prices, they're like, "I might add." I
literally had a phone call earlier
today. Someone said they were gonna add
a quarter, like 25 cents to their
shipping. And they were like holding
their breath. I'm like, "Bro, add $3 and
see what happens." Most people are so
afraid of raising prices because they're
afraid they're going to lose their
customers. But if you're in a supply
constrained business, it is one of the
primary paths to fixing it. So if you're
going to do it, raise your prices by a
lot. We're talking 50%, 100%. So
singles, doubles in terms of how much
more you raise your prices. The second
thing he could do is create basically
change the service to delivery ratio. So
instead of having just one-on-one
services that are being rendered, he can
do one to many or one to small group,
right? So he changes how many customers
he can take on personally. And the third
is that he just hires and trains other
consultants, right? So he keeps the
ratio the same, but he just adds more
headcount to his business. And so
there's basically the three things that
he can do to solve the supply
constraint. Now, he might be afraid to
raise prices that much, and he might be
like, "Oh my god, I'm losing all my
clients." But what's actually going to
happen? So, let's play it out. So, let's
say about 30% of his clients leave. But
if he doubled his prices and 30% of his
clients left, he'd make more money while
working with fewer people. And so,
here's the double benefit of this is
that number one, he makes more and he
services fewer. So, he also frees up
time. It literally kills two birds with
one stone. He literally makes more money
and has more time. Which is why if you
want a supply constraint business,
pricing is one of the strongest levers
that you should consider pulling and
usually a lot more than you think you
should. And now here's the secondary,
the tertiary benefit of doing that. Now
that you have that extra time, you
actually have time to create even more
capacity. And so if you need to have
time to say, okay, you know what? I'm
going to increase my service delivery
ratio, right? I'm going to figure out
what tech I need to do so that I can
expand how many people I can take on. Or
I'm going to create a training system so
that I can bring on new consultants and
I can bring them on faster so that they
can start taking on clients for me. In
either of those situations, the net
result would be he'd make more money per
hour and bringing this extra leverage in
would multiply that. And so by doing
this, he's fixing the real problem,
which is supply, not demand. And so he
could double his income working 15 fewer
hours a week and then double it again
after he has brought in more consultants
or expanded the ratio. And so the main
lesson here is that sometimes the path
to growth isn't more clients, it might
be better clients. So if you have the
opportunity, instead of trying to work
harder, appropriately charge what the
market is saying they want to pay you,
and you're the one getting in the way.
So that was a simple one. Let's wrap it
up a little bit. So second example,
think about a software company. So
imagine a software company that helps
service businesses schedule
appointments. So the CEO proudly shows
off all the new features that they're
building and they're like, "Our
product's going to be the best." And
he's like, "No one's going to match us."
But looking at their numbers shows
something very different, right? So
people who try their product love it and
customers stay a long time. The product
works great, but they're still not
growing. So what's the real problem? Is
it demand constrainted or is it supply
constraint? Well, it's demand
constrained. They spend only 5% of their
money on marketing while their
competitors spending 20 to 30%. is they
built a great product, but almost nobody
knows it exists. They're fighting
against irrelevance. And so they have a
ding-ding demand problem, but they're
putting all their money into the
product. And now this can be tricky
because of course you need to continue
to improve the product. And if you keep
improving the product, you might get to
a point where the word of mouth alone
can bring you in more customers. Now,
the big question mark on this one, and I
want to make a clear point here, and
this is something that I've it took me a
long time to figure out, is that I've
been on both polar extremes here, where
I'm like, marketing is the only thing
that matters. everything else is
irrelevant. And on the other extreme,
it's like product is the only thing that
matters and the product is good enough,
then you shouldn't need marketing. The
asterisk is you need to have a product
that the customers of that product have
high surface area exposure to other
people that could use that product. So,
let me explain. Facebook, for example,
is for people. And so, if you talk to
other people, you have something that
you can refer them to. But if you're
like I do IT consulting for Fortune 100
companies, the likelihood that you're
going to get like referrals from that, I
mean you can, but it's not like you're
going to get viral growth. I mean for
sure word of mouth is be a part of it,
but you're probably going to have to go
out and get business. And so there is an
element where at some point, especially
the more niched you are, especially the
more higher end you are, the more you
are going to likely be able to keep
customers because your product's really
good, but it's not going to necessarily
grow the business. So if looking at the
business from the constraints
perspective, we'd be like, okay, let's
pull some resources, cash flow, talent,
from continuing to invest in the product
where we currently have no one churning.
So like no one's leaving, everyone loves
it. But the thing is is that we want
more people in. And so let's go get more
customers. Again, I'm not saying make
your product bad. I'm saying let that
dog lie and then reallocate some
resources so you can let more people
know about the stuff. Because if the
product is that good, then you might be
able to just double the customers in
just a few months without even changing
the product and people continue to stay
and pay. And fundamentally, we have this
big misconception that the harder we
work on something, the better it
necessarily is. But often times products
get way worse through addition. And so
often times you can improve a product a
lot by just deleting things. And from a
service perspective, if you have a
service business, just letting the team
work, right? because the constant change
often times actually erodess the product
quality and the service quality more
than the incremental improvement that
you think this new change is going to
create. And so some of the best years of
of different businesses that I've owned
have been when I'm like not super
involved with it because of like, hey,
I've already done the thing. Let them
just keep getting better at sales. Let
the team get better at onboarding. Let
the team get better at customer success
and just don't mess with it. Just let
the natural improvement of humans
improve the performance of the business.
So, in this particular business, the
founder would likely take their free
time and put all of it into getting more
customers. And they'd have to just
figure out, am I going to run ads? Am I
going to do outbound? Am I going to do
affiliates? Am I going to make content?
Which of these strategies am I going to
use in order to get more people in the
door? So, let's walk through example
number three. Let's say you're a
brick-andmortar restaurant. You serve
food. So, imagine a 2hour waits on
Saturday, but they're empty on a Tuesday
afternoon. Same business, different
problems depending on how you look at it
and more importantly when you look at
it. So is a supply or demand
constrainted. H a tricky one. Honestly,
the answer is they're mispriced. And
because of that, we actually they have
enough capacity, but it's not allocated
to the right times. And so in this
business, it's a little bit of both. And
the nice thing is is we can solve it. So
let's imagine the steakhouse, let's just
call it a steakhouse, loves marketing.
And he keeps saying, "We need more ads.
We need more specials. We need more
customers." And so he's spending
thousands on ads every single month. But
this is the twist. On Saturday and
Friday nights, people are waiting 90
plus minutes for a table and they got to
turn people away at the door. And so
more marketing would just mean more
angry people who got dressed up, pulled
up to the restaurant they wanted to go
to and can't get in. So here's three
different ways that we could solve this
potential supply issue that only happens
on certain days. So number one is we
could just raise prices on Friday and
Saturday. So you give a different menu
for weekends than you do during
weekdays. And that extra increase could
have a dramatic effect on the business.
Restaurants typically run lower margins
than most businesses. So let's just say
they run 10% margins. A 20% price
increase would triple the profit on
those two days. But here's where it gets
kind of nasty. Well, if those two days,
Friday and Saturday, where half the
revenue of the business is being
generated, then you one and a halfx the
profit of the business just from
increasing the prices in those two days.
But what are some of the downstream
effects that happen from that? Well, if
people know that on the weekends it's a
little bit more, what happens to that
demand? he's good at marketing. Some of
them might not come, but a certain
percentage would be like, I love this
restaurant, but I don't want to pay
extra for it. So, all of a sudden, I'm
going to spread during the week. And so,
what we do is we actually spread out the
demand to meet the capacity. Now, what
are some other things that the
restaurant owner could do? They could
let people pay extra to skip the line.
This wouldn't necessarily solve the
constraint, but it would make the
business more money. Or they could just
stay open later because they might find
out they're like, "Hey, you know what?
We close at 9:00, but we still have
lines." It's like, "All right, well,
let's close at 11:00." If you did all
three of those things, we're talking
like 100% increases in profit, sometimes
more, just from three small changes. And
the real reason is that originally he
was like, "We need to market more cuz
we're not busy during the week." And all
he was doing is just keep jamming more
into Fridays and Saturdays where he was
capacity constrained. By solving the
right problem, he actually can unlock
the growth in the business. And if
you're in one of these positions, let me
give you a little tip. People hate
getting prices raised on them. Of course
they do. But what can you do that
actually has the same net effect to the
business? Instead of saying weekends are
20% more, you can say weekdays are 20%
less. People are happy to get a discount
and then pay normal on Fridays and
Saturdays. So it's all how you frame it.
And so if you're in one of those
businesses and you're thinking about how
you want to do it, think about it like
that. Let's do example four. So online
business. So let's imagine this is an
online fitness equipment store during
COVID. All right? So home workout boom,
all the stores are empty, right? And so
overnight their sales go up 4x, right?
Sounds amazing. Well, for anybody who's
in in some of these businesses that had
disproportionate demand during that
time, you would prefer to sell out and
have that pain, then have no one buying.
So, if I had to pick, I'd rather be
supply constrained than demand
constrained. But both suck. Back to the
example, they sell out of everything.
Their suppliers can't keep up. But
instead of focusing all their energy on
getting more inventory and improving
their supply, they keep running ads,
right? They keep marketing. They think,
"Oh, we just need to ride this wave.
Maybe we'll pre-sell. We'll keep selling
more and more." Well, the result is that
shipping times go from two weeks to
eight weeks. Bad for you. start pouring
in. Customer service gets swamped, angry
emails, and all they end up doing is
just making the problem worse with each
new sale because they aren't fixing the
real issue. Supply constrained or demand
constrained. Well, this was a little
easier after the last one's a little
harder. It's supply constraint business.
This is a pure supply constraint and
it's physical product. So, let's talk
about how we can break through it. Now,
once they realize this, if they were to
actually tackle the problem, there's
basically only two core things that this
business owner could do. Number one is
sell something different. Number two is
going to be increase the supply of the
business. So, I'm going to break that
down. So, the sexy thing to do would be
say, okay, we have all these customers
that just bought our products from us.
Is there something that's intangible
that we can sell them that we're not
going to run out of to immediately
generate more cash flow? And maybe that
cash flow could help us pay our vendors
more aggressively to put us at the front
of the line. Now, some of you might hear
this and be like, "What? A vendor would
would skip a line? Lines are as old as
time, right? They are the only fair
system in the world." No, of course you
can pay to get at the front of the line.
and say, "Hey, if I paid you 20% more,
do you think you put my stuff first?" Of
course. Right? Money talks. And so, how
would you generate this? So, I'd be
like, "Okay, I've got this fitness
equipment. Maybe I go reach back out and
sell a warranty with it." Maybe I talk
to a couple of fitness app developers
and I say, "Hey, you guys have a
product. I have all these customers that
just bought this thing. Do you think I
could white label your thing or just do
some sort of affiliate deal where I can
sell your product to my audience?"
Right? In each of these situations, the
affiliate deal, I'm tapping into
somebody else's supply and say, "Cool,
you've already got supply. Well, let me
sell it through my distribution."
Alternatively, I have my distribution
and I could sell an insurance product,
something like that that doesn't really
have there's no supply associated with
it. I could maybe sell some services on
top. Be like, "Hey, are there other
things that you're looking at? Are you
thinking about getting flooring? Are you
thinking about how you want to design
the gym? Do you want to decorate the
gym?" Like, these are all different
things that we could sell to that
existing base rather than continue to
bring more people in who even if they
had the money, we can't deliver on the
core service. So in all of those
situations, these are ways you could
easily generate the cash to then have
leverage with suppliers or reinvest in
the supply chain so that you could get
your stuff to you faster. And if you
look at some of the biggest e-commerce
companies in the world or just physical
products businesses, they have very
dialed supply chain. They have multiple
vendors. They have multiple kind of
points of failure or rather not they
have redundancies to eliminate single
points of failure within the system. So
I was talking to a friend of mine who's
looking at buying a very large
supplement company that you've heard of.
One of the big things that he was able
to do is like one of his core
competencies is that he has an amazing
supply and so he gets his raw materials
and he buys better than just about
anybody else. And so if you're like,
"Oh, I just it's supply chain issues."
It's like that's the core of the
business, right? Like if you're in a
physical products business, supply chain
is it's the constraint. If you have a
great product, it will become the
constraint. Or if you're good at
marketing, it will become the
constraint. And if you want to succeed
at product businesses that are physical,
you got to get good at both of those
things. So this is the business you're
really in. I want to be really clear.
This is definitely not me advocating for
you having a woman in the red dress. In
this very hypothetical scenario of
somebody using CO and they can't do
anything else, they need to generate
cash so that they can move things
forward. I'm okay with what I would
consider like one-time or short-term
options that you can generate cash in
the business. It's the reality of
business. Sometimes you got to make
those plays rather than saying, "Oh,
we're going to start another business."
And that's why with each of those
things, the insurance product or white
labeling someone else's thing, both
those things don't really require you to
do much more than just introduce it to
your existing base. Sell them, take the
split, take the cash, and then reinvest
in the thing that actually is limiting
the business. If you're hearing this,
you're like, "Well, that's nice for a
consultant, that's nice for a
restaurant, that's nice for an online
store, but my business is special. I'm a
home services business. This couldn't
possibly apply to me." So, let's say
you're a plumber and you're running
Google PVC and you're booking, you know,
every slot out in your calendar and your
vans are always on the road, right? And
technicians are are working overtime and
even with the overtime because you got
to pay time and a half or whatever your
overtime rates are, profits are starting
to compress. So, it's like, wait a
second, it's like we're fully booked and
we're just not that profitable. So, this
particular owner might think, oh, I need
to get more customers or I need to get
more technicians. But, if we look under
the hood a little bit, and this is
common, it actually isn't either of
those things. You're like, "Wait, what
is it?" Well, let's walk through it. So,
we might find out that their plumbers
finish the jobs quickly, but they rarely
offer additional services or upgrades.
They're not selling them into the
membership on a long-term basis. They're
not looking for a repair schedule that
they're going to come back. They're not
looking or asking for the other units in
the house if they need need to take a
look at those too. And so, the thing is
is that they have a supply problem with
their sales skills rather than how many
jobs they can do. And so if the exact
same number of customers could get sold
twice the services, but they're already
there, it only takes a little bit more
time for them to do the delivery. They
could basically better utilize their
existing supply to increase revenue and
profit within the business. And so what
we're actually diving deeper into is
that there's basically this Mondo
decision tree that ends up, if you've
seen any of my cash guys episodes, the
first thing I typically look for is this
supplier demand. Once I'm in the okay,
maybe it's a demand issue. Oh, maybe
it's a supply issue. We start diving
deeper. It's like, okay, well, maybe
they're mispriced or maybe they don't
have enough talent or the existing
talent there isn't selling enough per
job or basically average cart value
isn't high enough. And because of that,
this particular owner can't spend to get
more customers. He can't spend to get
more technicians. So, what do you do in
that situation? I can't spend to get
more of either because profits are thin.
Well, we have to either raise the
prices, but if they're competitive, then
it's like, well, then maybe we just sell
more work. And so, fundamentally, this
is how you dive through and start
diagnosing some of the issues within a
business. But the actual constraint,
like what would this owner have to do?
Well, they would start teaching their
plumbers simple sales skills and give
them a two, threeline script that says
once you finish this, ask them if they
want this. Right? They'd role play back
and forth every morning. They meet, they
see what percentage of people they
upsell to a second job. And all of a
sudden, they're like, "Wait, we're
upselling 50% now to another job." Well,
guess what happens to revenue? Goes up
by 50%. Guess what else happens? If
costs remain just about the same, a
disproportionate amount of that revenue
drops to the bottom line. Most
businesses that run paper thin margins
and what I would consider established
industries are just missing a core part
of the business. And so they're doing
like step one and not step two. And
because of that, step two is where all
the profit is. This particular instance,
a lot of times people think the only way
to grow is so you get more customers,
right? But sometimes the best move isn't
getting more customers, it's making more
from the customers you've got. So this
home services company, they are barely
making enough money and they're fully
allocated for their technicians. Are
they demand constrained or are they
supply constrained? Tough. The technical
answer is that they would be demand
constrained in my opinion. I'll explain
why. So if they had more money per
customer, they would be able to make
more money and have more profit to then
go out and hire more headcount. And so
sometimes you're in a rock and a hard
place where you're kind of like at this
stalemate between supply and demand,
right? It happened one of our earlier
examples, too, where you're like, well,
we're barely making enough money. we
need more technicians, but we can't
afford technicians because we're not
making enough money. When you're in one
of those situations, you have a
strategic problem, which is typically
going to be around price or the actual
products that you're offering, like this
instance, is that they had a sales
issue. They're not upselling enough
customers to other services while
they're in the house because it doesn't
cost them much more once they send the
guy out to the additional services. And
those additional services make all the
difference in terms of net profit for
the business. Once that occurs, now that
unlocks, okay, well, do we want to
become more efficient or other guys?
Which would then be truly unlock the
supply constraint, but they now have the
cash flow to solve it. So, real quick,
if you're in one of those rock and hard
place scenarios where you're like, I
can't grow enough, but I can't spend the
money to grow, or I I need this help,
but I need money to buy the help. If I
had more customers, I could afford it,
but I can't serve more customers. These
are classic hard and rock place
scenarios. And believe it or not, I just
want to make you feel better. Like
two-thirds of businesses, when I ask
them like, "Have you been at the same
revenue for two years?" A lot of them
say yes. And so if that's you, don't
worry, it's solvable. All right? And so
I put together with my team this $100
million scaling road map. You can check
it out. So it's basically all the stages
of business that we've broken down for
scaling a company from basically zero to
500 plus headcount. And it's all the
stages that we found with our businesses
and specifically more important to you,
where we got stuck and how we got
through it. And so if you would like a
custom scaling roadmap for your business
right now, go to
acquisition.com/roadmap. You can get it.
It's absolutely free. Just type in your
business information. It asks for a
bunch of things just so we can
personalize it for you. And on the thank
you page, if you're like, man, I would
love to make sure that what I'm going to
do is the right move. Book a call. I'd
love to have our team take a look at the
business and maybe have you fly out here
to our headquarters if it makes sense.
To be fair, this is only for business
owners. If you're not there, by all
means, go enjoy the scaling road map.
But otherwise, let's get back to it. So,
I'll give you a different example. So, I
had a business who came out that was
doing some sort of enterprise software
for like commercial buildings. So,
something cleaning and efficiency
related. I can't remember, but I do
absolutely recall why the business was
stuck. Now, this founder had been stuck
at the same revenue level for years,
like eight years. He could not crack
this revenue level. And so, what we did
is we looked at basically all the
metrics of the acquisition funnel. And
so, he had an outbound method because he
had lists of what commercial buildings
were in the area that he could service.
And I went through it. I was like,
"Okay, how many of these are, you know,
reachouts you sending a day? What's the
messaging?" And all that stuff sounded
good. And I was like, "Okay, so how many
demonstrations are you doing per week of
your, you know, product or service?" and
he was doing like 10 demonstrations a
week and you're closing two a year and
he was like, "Yeah." I'm like, "So,
you're closing two out of 500 demos."
He's like, "Well, when you say it like
that, it kind of sucks." I'm like,
"Well, yeah, it kind of sucks, right?"
But the thing is is that in this
particular instance, they weren't really
even demand constrained. They were
basically I mean, they are functionally
demand constrained, but the issue was
not actually the amount of people who
said they were interested in the product
or the number of reachouts they were
doing or even the scripting of the
conversation they're having. They just
couldn't close. And so the leaders were
like when they came to talk to me, they
were like, "Hey, I think we need to hire
more sales people." And the literally
the plan was to double the sales team,
right? So they're going to double the
sales team because they're like, "Hey,
we listen to your stuff. Do more. Like
we're double the sales team so we can
double our sales." I was like, "My god,
let's not do that. Let's just figure out
how we can get 500 demonstrations turn
into 100 deals instead of two. It's a
50x right there. And this is an
unbelievably valuable business." And the
reason they've been able to stay at that
level is because they had like 98%
revenue retention. and you're like no
one ever left the business cuz it was
such a complex thing that they were
establishing and setting up. And so the
thing is is that right now if you look
at your process you might find that
you're like oh actually we have plenty
of leads and people are scheduling calls
and they are showing up but they're just
not buying or they are scheduling and
they're not showing or they're opting in
but they're not scheduling. And so you
might have this massive leak in your
existing demand process that creates the
demand drain and then people mistakenly
think, "Oh, I think I'm going after the
wrong market or oh, I think my my ads
suck or oh, I think the targeting is
off." But if people are the right type
of people that are opting in, we have a
sales process problem. That's where the
demand leak is happening. And so rather
than say, "Oh, let's double our ad spend
or let's double our sales team," like,
we got to fix the problem. So after I
dug into the business a little bit more,
I'll tell you where the actual real
nugget was was that they were presenting
to the wrong people. So the way this
particular business worked is that they
had people who own the buildings who
wanted to save money and then they had
building managers, the guys who actually
like ran the buildings and those were
not the same person. And so they have
something called the principal agent
problem, which is basically the person
who has to do the work versus the person
who makes the decision are two different
people. And so all the owners were like,
"Yeah, go save me money." But then when
it got to that the the manager of the
building, they were like, "I don't want
to do any more work." Because all this
meant for them, they're not going to get
paid more. And they had the decision-m
power, even though the owners were the
ones who were writing the check. And so
basically what we did was we rescripted
the process to essentially elevate the
status of the manager and make it all
about them. Just like what business are
you really in? It's what customer do you
really serve? And so that was kind of
the million and in this instance
probably $10 million plus question that
we got to answer with that business. And
so by simply redefining that sales
process for that specific avatar, that
is what unlocked growth. So let's go
completely other direction. Let's say
that you're an online course creator.
You're a YouTuber and you sell some sort
of digital product. And let's say that
you've got students and you've got high
completion rates and you get great
results and people leave great reviews.
Okay, here's the problem. They're
breaking even. How could this even
happen when you have a product that cost
you nothing? This particular guy thinks,
"Oh, the problem's marketing." So keep
spending more on fancy funnels, paid
ads, but every time like a new customer
comes in, they barely make any profit
after they recoup ad costs. So what's
the real problem? Well, there's a number
of things. So let's break down each of
them. So either he's priced too low,
right? So often times you'll find that
you can double price and maybe, you
know, sales might go down by 15%. If
that happens, then it's like boom, we've
we fixed the business just with that one
pricing issue. Sometimes it could just
be that the ads suck, which is a real
one, right? The ads suck or the ads are
good, but they're outdated because
they're not making sufficient ads. So
it's either quality of ads problem or
quantity of ads problem or both. So it's
a supply demand constraint. Well, we're
talking about raising his prices. But
isn't raising prices what we do when we
have supply constraints, right? Because
you raise the prices then fewer people
buy. You create space and you also
create profit. Well, then why would we
raise the prices when we have a demand
constraint? Because we can't afford to
get more customers. And so we need to
raise the prices so that we can spend
more money in ads so that we can get
more customers. Because fundamentally,
if we're answering the question, could
he 2x the number of customers he's
handling? Well, yeah. It's a course.
It's very easy. They get a login. the
delivery is not the constraint of this
particular problem. Even though we have
a demand constraint, we might have a
similar solution to a supply constraint
business. So, if he tried raising his
prices from, let's say, $1,000 to $3,000
for his main course, people around him
might think he's crazy. No one's going
to pay that, you know, whatever, right?
But what would actually happen? So,
sales might drop by 15 or 20%. Which
would mean his revenue nearly triples
overnight. But then by creating a
high-end version for $10,000, which
another 10% of the market might happily
purchase, he might get another $1,000
per sale. So he goes from $1,000 to
$4,000 total per sale. 10% time 10,000
is an extra,000. We had 3,000 is the new
change. And that almost made up for the
sales drop that he had in terms of
number of units. And so same content,
same marketing, very different results,
all because he found and fixed the
actual problem of the business. Now
let's say alternatively in his special
snowflake market, he can't raise the
price. Fine. So, in this instant, we
say, "Okay, well, what UGC or what user
generated content are you you're
currently putting out?" He also makes
his own content. We're like, "Okay,
well, what are your best performers?"
These ones. Okay. Why are your ads not
those? I thought they had to be
different. Take your best organic
content, add a 5-second CTA at the end,
run it as a paid ad. Especially if you
know that some organic content has
generated sales, do more of that and put
money behind it. At the very least, if
you're looking at your process of how
people are are getting into your
business, for the love of God, make sure
that when you're sending traffic to a
page, it's actually structured to
convert the traffic. You sending people
to a beautiful homepage, have the
beautiful homepage, but that's not the
first thing they're going to see. Get
their information and then give them the
thing they want and then they can go and
peck around the site, look around. The
thing is is that they'll have time to
look at it later. But right now we need
to convert because people have very
large motivation for very short periods
of time when they see marketing and in
that very short window is when we need
to maximize. My website acquisition.com
I think is hideous. And I get people
DMing me every day be like I redesign
your site for you and I'm like thanks
for that. And the thing is is that could
my site be improved? Yes. The resources
required to redo the site. It's going to
be such a pain in the ass because every
single department is going to have their
own two cents of what they think it
should look like. we're going to have to
make hundreds of decisions on something
that I then say, "Okay, with all of
these decisions and all of these
resources, is there something else we
could do that would grow the business
more?" And oftentimes, the answer is
yes. And so for me, I've had notoriously
ugly homepages because at the end of the
day, they typically convert fine. And
even though I'm like, "Oh my god, this
is so ugly." I just deal with it because
at the end of the day, it's not the
constraint. And so I would say more
times than not and like you hear this
and it seems obvious when you're looking
at someone else's business, but when you
look at your own, what you end up doing
is you spend all your time doing the
stuff you love because you love it, but
the business might not need it. And so
you spend all your time solving problems
that don't need to be solved and
investing resources, the very limited
resources you have as a small business
owner towards problems that simply
increase potential but not throughput.
Let's say you've got four lanes, one
lane, and then four lanes, right, on a
highway. Okay. Well, if I take this one
from four lanes to five lanes, is the
traffic going to go faster? No. But this
is what happens when you improve your
website and you don't get any increase
in throughput in terms of your front-end
optimization. Like you don't have a
higher conversion rate because of that.
You can't handle more customers because
of that. And so all you did was you just
spent time and money to increase
potential. So with this business, is it
a supply or demand constraint? Well,
this one is a demand constraint, but
less so that they don't have strong
enough marketing. They didn't have
strong enough sales. So the process
itself and more specifically they were
almost like avatar constrained. They
were trying to sell to the wrong person.
They were convincing the business owners
all day long. But the problem was the
business owners weren't the ones making
the decision. The guy, the foreman of
the factory, the guy on the floor was
the one who was making the call. So he's
the real customer. So let's do the next
example. Let's say that you can vibe
code because of cursor that came out.
You're like, I can make an app in two
seconds, right? And so this madeup
mobile app company shows, you know, if
you build it, they will come, right?
It's the most dangerous myth in
business, right? And so imagine that
company has built an incredible product
that's easy to use. All right, the tech
team is world class. The app's fast.
It's beautiful. It does all the good
stuff, right? But user growth is
painfully slow. So they would only have
a few thousand users when they really
need millions in order to make this
business model work. Now, you might be
like, thousands and millions? Oh my god,
I would just want my first 10 customers.
Everything that I'm talking about right
now applies. Just add or remove zeros.
But the same concepts apply. All right,
so let's say the founders are blaming
the product. They're like, maybe we need
more features, right? Maybe it's too
hard to get started. So, is this app
demand or supply constraint? Obviously,
demand constraint. And so, they're
fixing the wrong stuff. And so, the app
isn't the issue. Awareness is the
problem, right? They're spending almost
nothing on marketing and relying instead
on word of mouth. And so, they have this
serious demand problem, but they're
putting all their effort into product.
And so, they've shifted that focus to
the right problem if they could change.
So, let's let's walk through what they
might consider. So, number one is they
could probably optimize their app store
listing. So, if you convert a higher
percentage of traffic, then a couple
things happen. One is that you get
ranked higher because your sales
velocity goes up, but also Apple also
push you more traffic, right? Because
they get a percentage. So they want the
highest converting products to be on the
store in the highest and most prevalent
positions so that they make the most
money too. That's just organically. On
top of that, they could pay for user
acquisition. They could take some of
that extra talent that they're focusing
on the back end and say, "Okay, well,
how do we maximize downloads and
activation?" They could go for an
affiliate play and say, "Okay, what apps
already exist that serve this exact
market? Is there a way we could run a
banner ad on somebody else's product
which absolutely exists? You could run
into marketplaces where you can buy
those types of ads, right? On top of
that, you just build really strong
referral program depending on the nature
of the product. And so in each of these
ways, these would be things that they
could do to capture more demand on the
front end rather than being like, okay,
well, no one's leaving and everyone
loves the product. We get reviews, but
it's still not growing fast enough. And
so within a a year, if you just shifted
all that effort there, the user base
could grow 20x larger, right? or 100
times larger, whatever, because the
product was good enough. They just
needed to solve their real problem,
which at the time is demand. Now, again,
so let's wrap this together. Is it
always a supply or demand constraint
issue? The answer is yes, but it's not
always going to be the same one at the
same time. Meaning, as soon as you solve
a demand constraint, guess what happens
next? You have a supply constraint,
right? And then you'll solve your supply
constraint and be like, "Okay, finally
we we got all of our inventory back in
place. The warehouses are full. We're
not running any ads. Oh my god. Now that
the fitness equipment, you know, is back
in place. It's like, oh my god, we got
to spin this up. Now that we just hired
four more accountants, now we can we can
take on more clients. Oh wait, we don't
have any more clients. Now we got to go
get them. And so it's this accordion,
this back and forth that happens. It's
the natural flow of business. But when
people get stuck, it's because they
stayed working on the demand constraint
after the demand constraint went away
and it became a supply constraint. This
ping-ponging, this back and forth and
the lack of awareness of the founder
realizing that the constraint has moved
in the business is why businesses will
get stuck for years. And so, if you have
been stuck for a long time, it's not
that you're an idiot. It's not that
you're doing something wrong. It's
likely that you started solving a
constraint, you solved it, and you
solved it so well, you created another
one, but you didn't switch to where your
attention was being allocated. And so,
if you're like, "Okay, well, where am I
at today?" Here's an easy battery list
that you can kind of walk through. So,
first answer these questions honestly.
If more customers showed up tomorrow,
could you serve them? Well, at the
standard that you want, yes or no. Two,
are you turning away business or putting
people on waiting lists? Yes or no? Are
your most profitable time slots or
products always sold out? Yes or no? Do
you run out of inventory or having long
shipping delays if you're in physical
products? Yes or no. If you answered yes
to any of those, you likely have a
supply problem. And so, if that's you,
this is what you focus on. The easiest
one first is raising prices, right? It's
the fastest fix for a supply problem.
The second thing is that you could add
capacity, right? The next is that you
could just clean up operations. This
means you get leverage for the existing
people. So, it's like how do I get my
one person to be able to deliver for
three people instead of one-on-one,
right? This then creates tech systems
behind that. There's three ways you can
solve the constraint on a service
business outside of pricing. Number one
is technology, as in this tech allows
one person to do five times the work.
Great. The second is training. So I got
this person who's a level B talent to
become level A talent and they can now
do five times the work. The third is
that you then just bring somebody else
on at the same B talent and you just
have twice the B's. In each of these
situations beyond pricing these are the
doors that we would knock on to feel
like okay which of these is right for
our business right now. Once you do that
let's say you solve that supply control.
You say you know what I I got my on my
uh my onboarding and training system for
for for getting you know new new people
up to speed and now I can do twice as
much per account rep. So, whoops. Now,
we have a demand issue. And so, if you
answered no to those questions that I
have, the things that you'd be focusing
on obviously fixing the acquisition
channel. So, be like you're going to get
you're going to either have to do some
sort of outreach, some sort of
affiliates, some sort of ads that you're
going to have to run or some sort of
content strategy or combination of those
that then generates the first level of
demand. But you still have to convert
that demand. If you're getting those
people, but you're not turning them into
sales, you have a sales constraint,
right? This is all demand side. But you
have to look at your own business and be
like which one of these is it to double
click into the advertising and sales
side. There's the advertising of like
how you're generating the demand and
then there's the technical component of
like how are we capturing leads right
now? The way you capture leads and this
sounds like a very small thing is huge
because the way you lay out your landing
page, the headlines you use, the images
you use, the copy you use, the the lead
magnet, if you have a lead magnet you
give away, something free, the
assessment, the the call, whatever it is
that you're giving away, the benefit for
them taking the next action that might
just not be good enough to convert a
high percentage of the traffic.
Fundamentally, you're going to have a
people problem. The people suck and
they're not following the process you
have. You have a process problem, which
is the process itself sucks and is
selling to the wrong person, the wrong
thing at the wrong time. You have an
offer issue, which is like you're
getting in front of the right people and
you're getting in front of the right
time, but the offer you give them is not
compelling. Or price doubles on both of
these constraints. You might be doing
everything right, but you're just not
charging enough. And because you're not
charging enough, you can't spend enough
on marketing to get their people in so
you can be profitable. Because once you
have that, let's say, fine, we fixed the
advertising and we fix the conversion
rate. Well, now we have sales. So,
here's the trap. If you fix the wrong
problem, it actually not only wastes
money and time, it often makes it worse.
And this is why so many business owners
are like working their faces often in so
much pain is that the constraint
switched. You didn't switch what you
were doing. And by succeeding really
well at the thing that's no longer the
constraint, you're actually further
straining the system. And this is really
hard. And this is me personally. I've
almost always been able to out advertise
any business I've ever had. I've almost
always had supply constraints my whole
life. And so the problem is like
sometimes, and I've had to learn this as
an entrepreneur, sometimes I just have
to take a step back and be like, we're
just going to let marketing or mediocre
marketing or mediocre conversion
continue because even if I fix it, it
will literally make my business worse.
And even though it breaks my heart to
have leads not get followed up with
sometimes, it's just like we can't even
take them on if we could. And that's
ultimately going to hurt my reputation
more than not following up with a lead.
So if you have a supply problem, more
marketing creates chaos and unhappy
customers. If you have a demand problem,
better operations isn't going to help
much when there's no one to serve,
right? And so, the most successful
businesses I've ever worked with, I've
invested in, keep finding and breaking
through their current problem, their
current constraint, and then moving on
to the next one. Because this is not a
one-time fix. It's a way of thinking.
So, if you want to see supply or demand
constraint thinking in action in a real
business, because when it's real
business, it's always hairy and it's not
always as clear as some of these
examples, I have two examples I can give
you. So, Ashley, she was a demand
constrained business in services. So, if
you're a service business, that would be
for you. And Raymond also a service was
brick and mortar with supply constraint.